[RFC 0056] CI all Nix PRs (#56)
NixOS/rfcs: rfcs/0000-ci-all-nix-prs.md

---
feature: ci-all-nix-prs
start-date: 2019-10-30
author: John Ericson (@Ericson2314)
co-authors: (find a buddy later to help our with the RFC)
shepherd-team: (names, to be nominated and accepted by RFC steering committee)
shepherd-leader: (name to be appointed by RFC steering committee)
related-issues: (will contain links to implementation PRs)
---

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

Build all Nix PRs in CI.
Do not merge any PR until it passes CI.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

There is a (famous blog post)[blog-post] that everyone is sloppy and doing CI wrong.
This isn't just bad for releasing software smoothly, but also increases the burden for new contributors because it is harder to judge the correctness of PRs at a glance (is it broken? Did I break it?).

> I personally find it harder to contribute, I have to worry about double checking all my work on platforms I don't have as-easy access to, like Darwin.

Reviewer: Another motivation is that broken tests are not always the author's fault as master often turns red. Meaning that the author now has to checkout master to see this is a new error or not. If master is red, the author now has to either:
a. find a working commit in the history. If there are any merge conflict this might not be an option.
b. try and fix master himself. This might be completely unrelated work, meaning the author has to load and understand a new context.
c. wait or pester other contributors to fix master so they can continue their work.

Basically the later an error gets caught, the more expensive it becomes to fix.

Reviewer 2: We already have something like "rocket science" CI if you treat "nixpkgs-channels" as the source code. The channels will only update if the branch passes all of its blocking tests. This accomplishes the same goal as mentioned in the post and avoids the crazy costs that come with "rocket science" CI.

Reviewer 3: The problem with the way we use Hydra for nixpkgs-channels is that if a broken commit is ever merged to nixpkgs, everything that gets merged after the broken commit also gets blocked from making it to nixpkgs-channels until the problem is fixed.

Don't get me wrong: It's definitely much better than some "CI" systems I've used, but it's not quite as good as the first one I used, which only blocks the broken commit until it's fixed, while allowing other (passing) commits to be merged.

We cannot yet do this for all of Nixpkgs, sadly, due to resource limits.
But, there is no reason we cannot do it for Nix itself.

# Detailed design
[design]: #detailed-design

> Set up Hydra declarative jobsets to build all Nix PRs.

Reviewer 2: Having used these in the past, they rarely work well. I think the Hydra model only really works for "post-merge" CI, not "pre-merge" CI. A tool like OfBorg (or something else) seems like a good solution to "pre-merge" CI.

---
feature: ci-all-nix-prs
start-date: 2019-10-30
author: John Ericson (@Ericson2314)
co-authors: (find a buddy later to help our with the RFC)
shepherd-team: (names, to be nominated and accepted by RFC steering committee)
shepherd-leader: (name to be appointed by RFC steering committee)
related-issues: (will contain links to implementation PRs)
---

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

Build all Nix PRs in CI.
Do not merge any PR until it passes CI.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

> There is a [famous blog post](blog-post) about how everyone is sloppy and doing CI wrong.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
There is a [famous blog post][blog-post] about how everyone is sloppy and doing CI wrong.
```

This isn't just bad for releasing software smoothly, but also increases the burden for new contributors because it is harder to judge the correctness of PRs at a glance (is it broken? Did I break it?).
I personally find it harder to contribute, I have to worry about double checking all my work on platforms I don't have as-easy access to, like Darwin.

We cannot yet do this for all of Nixpkgs, sadly, due to resource limits.
But, there is no reason we cannot do it for Nix itself.

# Detailed design
[design]: #detailed-design

Optional first step: we can set up OfBorg to build all PRs.

> Set up Hydra declarative jobsets to build all approved Nix PRs.

Reviewer 4: It would be good to define what approved means here:

* review approved or specially formatted comment?
* how many approvals are required?
* who can approve?

Author: To be honest, I have no preference. We just need *something* to solve the small security problems.

> This might involve extending Hydra somewhat.

Reviewer 4: Could you clarify how Hydra would have to be extended?

I can imagine for example giving it access to GitHub's API, to know whether a PR is "approved".

Author: It could be via github approval, or a github comment, whichever is easier.

> Those with merge access should be instructed not to merge a PR until CI passes.

Reviewer 4: This can actually be enforced on GitHub, right? So why not make it part of the detailed design?

> Merge master into PRs or rebase before merge as a crude stop-gap to avoid master becoming an untested tree due to a merge commit.

Reviewer 4: Could Hydra build the PR and also build the merge commit of the PR into master?

If Hydra gains the ability to keep master always working obviating the manual steps above beyond the PR jobs, use that ability.

If a new CI is used, ensure that is also keeps master in an always-building state.

# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

More process to follow.

# Alternatives
[alternatives]: #alternatives

1. Merely build all PRs with OfBorg.
   This is still far better than the status quo, but has the disadvantage that master must still be rebuilt as OfBorg and Hydra do not share a cache.

> 2. Merely build all approved PRs, and maintainers are still allowed to merge broken ones / not take care to avoid untested merge commits.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. Merely build all approved PRs with Hydra, but maintainers are still allowed to merge broken ones / not take care to avoid untested merge commits.
```
